# Getting Started

## Installation

`TypedMatrices.jl` is registered in the Julia package registry, and Julia's builtin package manager can be used to install it:

```julia-repl
pkg> add TypedMatrices
```

## Setup

The first step is, as usual, to load the package:

```@repl getting-started
using TypedMatrices
```

The list of available matrices can be obtained with [`list_matrices`](@ref):

```@repl getting-started
matrix_list = list_matrices()
```

The function returns a `Vector` of matrix types, which are subtypes of `AbstractMatrix`. The elements of this `Vector` can be used to generate matrices:

```@repl getting-started
matrix_list[1](4)
```

## Generating Matrices

Each type of special matrices has its own type and constructors. For example, a 5 × 5 [Hilbert](@ref) matrix can be generated with:

```@repl getting-started
h = Hilbert(5)
```

Most matrices can accept a type parameter to specify the element type. For example, a 5 × 5 Hilbert matrix with `Float64` elements can be generated with:

```@repl getting-started
Hilbert{Float64}(5)
```

Please check the list of [Builtin Matrices](@ref) for an overview of all available types.

## Properties

Matrices have properties such as "symmetric", "ill conditioned", or "positive definite".

The function [`list_properties`](@ref) can be used to show all properties currently defined in `TypedMatrices.jl`:

```@repl getting-started
list_properties()
```

The function [`properties`](@ref) can used to get the properties of a given matrix type:

```@repl getting-started
properties(Hilbert)
```

For convenience, the same function can be used to list the properties of a matrix instance, rather than a type:

```@repl getting-started
properties(h)
```

## Grouping

Matrices can be organized by creating user-defined groups. All builtin matrices belong to the `:builtin` group, and the package comes with an empty `:user` group for user-defined matrices. All available groups can be listed with:

```@repl getting-started
list_groups()
```

The function [`add_to_groups`](@ref) can be used to add a matrix to a group:

```@repl getting-started
add_to_groups(Matrix, :user, :test)
```

The function [`list_matrices`](@ref) can be used to list the matrices that belong to a chosen group:

```@repl getting-started
list_matrices(Group(:user))
```

Builtin matrices can also be added to a group:

```@repl getting-started
add_to_groups(Hilbert, :test)
list_matrices(Group(:test))
```

A matrix can be removed:

- from a specific group, with [`remove_from_group`](@ref), or
- from all groups, with [`remove_from_all_groups`](@ref).

Matrices cannot be removed from the `:builtin` group, and user-defined groups are automatically removed when they become empty:

```@repl getting-started
remove_from_group(Hilbert, :test)
remove_from_all_groups(Matrix)
list_groups()
```

## Finding Matrices

[`list_matrices`](@ref) is a powerful function to search for matrices, and filter the results by groups or properties. All arguments are "and" relationship, meaning that only matrices that satisfy all conditions will be retained.

For example, one can list all the matrices in the `:builtin` group, or all those that are satisfy the `:symmetric` property:

```@repl getting-started
list_matrices(Group(:builtin))
list_matrices(Property(:symmetric))
```

One can also combine the two filters and show all matrices in the `:builtin` group that satisfy the `:inverse`, `:illcond`, and `:eigen` properties:

```@repl getting-started
list_matrices(
    [
        Group(:builtin),
    ],
    [
        Property(:inverse),
        Property(:illcond),
        Property(:eigen),
    ]
)
```

A simpler syntax can be used to list all matrices that satisfy a list of properties. For example, all matrices with `:symmetric`, `:eigen`, and `:posdef` can be listed with:

```@repl getting-started
list_matrices(:symmetric, :eigen, :posdef)
```

The `list_matrices` functions provides a number of alternative interfaces. Check the full documentation of [`list_matrices`](@ref) or use the Julia help system for a complete list.
